egypt 's mubarak transferred military hospital

Egypt's Mubarak Transferred to Military Hospital
Updated: Friday, 15 Apr 2011, 9:04 AM EDT
Published : Friday, 15 Apr 2011, 8:12 AM EDT
 
The former Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak was transferred to a military hospital where he will remain under guard pending questioning, state media said Friday.
 
The ailing Mubarak was detained at a civilian hospital in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el Sheikh for 15 days while prosecutors investigate allegations of corruption and ordering the killings of protesters in the uprising against his rule, which ended Feb. 11.
The location of the military hospital was not disclosed. The state MENA news agency said he would be moved to prison once his condition improved.
Mubarak has been hospitalized since reportedly suffering heart problems during questioning this week. His two sons, who are also under investigation, were detained at a Cairo prison.
The report said the interior ministry wanted to move the former president to the Tora prison, where a number of former ministers and regime officials are held, but the prison hospital was not equipped to deal with a rapid decline in his health, AFP reported.
The interior minister responded by saying the prison's hospital was not equipped to deal with a rapid decline in the 82-year-old's health and recommended a military hospital, the report said.
An Egyptian newspaper reported that Mubarak could face the death penalty if he is found guilty of ordering the killing of demonstrators.
The state-owned newspaper Al Ahram quoted the head of Cairo's appeals court, Zakaria Shalash, as saying that Mubarak may face execution after a trial he expected will last at least a year.
Shalash said the testimony by Mubarak's former interior minister Habib al Adly, who himself is on trial on charges of ordering the shootings of anti-regime protesters and said he was ordered to use violence, made Mubarak an accomplice if proven.
"If proven, he [Mubarak] will receive the same punishment as the person who carried it out and it could reach execution if it is proven that peaceful demonstrators were killed with premeditation," Shalash said.
An estimated 800 people were killed in protests that toppled the veteran leader.
 
Get the latest mobile news, weather and sports from myfoxorlando on our iPhone, Droid or Blackberry apps. Follow us on Twitter and Facebook.   Send us News Tips - Call: 866-55-FOX35. Email us video & photos, click here .
 
